---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 3"
---

This is my third post for CS 373: Generic Programming with the
Standard Template Library.

### What did you do this past week?

#### "Effective CMake" by Daniel Pfeifer
 - [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsXLMQ6WgIk&index=32&list=PL-aYBnapqshFaFPtHcQ8A8aGjUxN_YdhA)

Watched this talk. It's a pretty good talk about the power behind
CMake and how to use it and different recommended practices. If you're
still writing Makefiles by hand and somehow that hasn't annoyed you,
I'd recommend giving this talk a watch.

#### "Rich Code for Tiny Computers: A Simple Commodore 64 Game in C++17" by Jason Turner
 - [link](https://youtu.be/zBkNBP00wJE)
 
It's as awesome as it sounds. He shows the magic of compiler
optimization and how much abstraction gets turned into nothing when
using the C++ compiler. 

#### Rust

I've really enjoyed using Rust in the past week to develop a small
game with my own collision detection algorithm. It's been fun.

### What's in your way?

The first test for each class. The problem with tests for each class
is that they're very dependent on the professor. The first test will
always be a blind shot, at least to some degree.

### What will you do next week?

I'll start on the next project and continue optimizing the collision
algorithm in Rust. 

### What's my experience of the class?

So far the class is great. Some of the reading material for UML was
quite dry. The extreme programming book is actually quite interesting,
even if it's a little 'hail corporate'. I've found a lot of it's ideas
to be good, even for personal projects.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

There's [this great talk](https://youtu.be/8aoDx_cYEFk) that gave me
some perspective. The grader doesn't care how hard you worked on
something. The employer doesn't care how hard you worked on
something. Don't stress yourself out about doing things "the right
way" or "the best way", just pass the tests and don't do anything
awful.

I usually think a lot about design decisions and doing things the best
way possible and making the correct trade-offs, but I do this so much
that I lose sight of the actual goal, of what's actually important. 

It's good to keep some perspective and it's good to keep some
balance. I'll strive to do that for the projects in the future. 
