---
layout: stl
title: "Generic Programming: Week 0"
---

This is my first entry for CS 371. I expect the class to be very
interesting. I've been reading a lot of C++ literature as C++
developers tend to be some of the best, so it'll be very interesting
to get projects and to figure out what a professional C++ workflow
looks like.

A lot of those post is directly copied from [my post for CS 373](https://kasrasadeghi.github.io/373-Week-0/). All
except for my experience of the class, due to them being different
classes.

### What did you do this past week?

I learned a bit of Kotlin, and using the TornadoFX library, I made a
graphical terminal emulator that ran a shell I made. I intend to make
it as flexible as something like *rofi*, but as powerful as an actual
terminal emulator.

So far that's long off, but I'm learning a lot about the language as I
go.

I also watched a bunch of lectures about GHC design and compiler
design for Racket, Haskell, and Miranda. Miranda's compiler and the
functional compilers of the 80's were actually very interesting. I'll
have to write a post about that.

### What's in your way?

So far, Professor Downing has warned us about taking both CS 373 and
CS 371g during the summer, due to the coinciding quiz/project/exam
times. I am currently taking both, and I realize that taking both and
succeeding in both will be a great exercise in time management skills.

I'm pretty sure anyone can use more practice in that regard, and there
is no growth without struggle, but I am concerned about how I will
deal with the scheduling issues.

What was in my way, before I figured it out, was the irritating
gem/Ruby/Jekyll system. For some reason when you install a gem in
Ruby, it doesn't add the gem's repository to the PATH. 

Once I added it to my path, Jekyll was incredibly nice to use. You can
use 'jekyll serve' on a local copy of the repository and it watches
the directories for any changes. You can use 'jekyll build' to see
specific error messages during construction.

### What will you do next week?

I'm going to work on both of the projects for the classes, familiarize
myself with the libraries involved, and set up a preliminary workflow
for both. That'll start with setting up Docker images for both of the
classes.

### What's my experience of the class?

I found a lot of the material engaging. I'm really interested in
programming language design, so it was enjoyable to think about why
the C++ design committee made decisions as they did during the
development and standardization of the language.

The C++ motto generally seems to be "let the programmer do whatever
they want as long as it is efficient". To me, it seems that whenever
one is faced with the need to guess whether C++ accepts some behavior
or does not accept that behavior, it probably does. 

There's also a notion from Hoare logic of having the weakest predicate
necessary for a statement and the strongest postcondition. These are
often discussed with reference to program synthesis and verification
research. It's interesting how the language design and the
recommendations of many C++ developers fall in line with the
implementation of that idea to each function.

The common advice or theme seems to be that functions should take in
the weakest kind of reference possible for them to succeed, weakening
the argument's reference by either reducing it to an R-value, putting
const, or making the reference const, and then the returned type
should be as strong as possible, like how the `>>=` operator returns
an L-value. 

I found the similarity between the intuitions of these two concepts
interesting. Can't wait to see what more's to come.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

mypy. When I sat in class and Professor Downing started explaining
what mypy was and that python actually had static typing... my mind
was blown. I finally understood how it was possible to use Python in
production.

My biggest gripe with Python was the lack of types. There's an
irritating amount of mental load involved with trying to keep track of
everything's type in a program, which sometimes leads to people
embedding the type in the name, like *value_str* or *counter_int*.

I recently watched a [lecture by Matthias
Felleisen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnczIyPXGfc) where he
discussed how Racket was a spectrum of languages, from a Racket that
is verified, to an experimental Racket that is a step up from
Assembly.

He discussed an iterative approach to using Racket where you start out
with Racket Racket, get a working prototype, and then once you have
some core part of the app written, you transition to Typed Racket and
have the types there for when you return or when you/a team member is
using the core.

I think that that workflow is common with Python in how it has a
similar system, with mypy being the equivalent of typed/racket.
