---
layout: stl
title: "Generic Programming: Week 2"
---

This is my third post for CS 371g: Generic Programming with the
Standard Template Library.

### What did you do this past week?

I worked on the projects for both classes. There were a fresh set of
issues to deal with this week and it seemed that each had its own
surprise at some point. 

For this class, it was good working with a partner on the project. It
was valuable having someone to talk to while writing the code and
making design decisions and a vast majority of the development was
done while Pair Programming. I learned a lot more about managing git
repositories and I made fairly extensive use of Github Projects to
handle the issues. You can actually make issues and then triage them
in the projects, marking them as Done or Todo or whatever you want.

I wish that you could make rules so that it would automatically
organize issues based on the tags they had, and that it would
automatically close issues once they were put in certain project lists
designated as complete stages.

Actually, in Emacs' Org-Mode they have something similar where you can
designate certain stages in the workflow as being complete. I haven't
delved too far into it, but it seems like useful functionality. It
would be really cool if an issue was made for each TODO or FIXME in
the code, or if a task on the project page was made for that.

### What's in your way?

Currently, gcov is not working at all. I compile the code with all the
flags that are required and it generates some of the files and then
it's complaining that the gcov notes file is not a gcov notes file,
whatever that means. Making *Makefile*s manually has also been
unpleasant. I actually really liked working with CMake for the
duration of the project. I'm going to see if I can integrate that more
heavily into the workflow of the next project because it seems to work
anywhere and it also integrates with IDEs and editors nicely.

My neighbors also quite loud at strange times, which has not been
great for my sleep schedule. I'm glad I'm living on campus next
semester because mandatory quiet hours are very nice.

### What will you do next week?

Hopefully, finish up the remaining bits of the C++ project and start on
the next project for the class. I'm definitely going to spend more
time testing makefiles on the lab machines.

### What's my experience of the class?

So far so good. The quizzes every day are certainly getting more
demanding and it's certainly difficult to manage time, as I thought it
was going to be. I imagine it's only going to get harder. 

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

I recommend CMake and CLion. They're both great tools and they make
using IDEs and building projects much nicer. I currently have it set-up
so that it copies the project directory into a folder, runs CMake
inside that and then tests a bunch of stuff. That seems like a good
way of not making a mess of the default project directory. I want to
look into making a src folder and a binaries folder or something for
the next project, but I think that there are some things you need to
do in CMake for that to play nice.
