---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 6"
---

This is my seventh post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

### What did you do this past week?
#### Finishing Touches on the [Website](leaguedb.me)
I finished up the website for this class. I think it turned out well
in the end. There were some routing issues that have persisted and
some small details regarding database structure, but most of the
project is stable and working.

#### Project Cleanup
I have still not finished project cleanup, hopefully changing the edit
page to disallow malicious attacks on our database and filling up all
of the memory for the running docker instance.

### What's in your way?
#### The Final
I have the final for this class next week on Monday, the same time as
my CS 371g final. I'm excited to be done. I'm going to go through all
of the examples of the code we worked on during class and see if I can
find some problems.

### What will you do next week?
#### Final prepwork
I'm going to study for the final, take the final, and then sleep a
lot. Once I have these classes done with, I'll have time to work on
some personal projects.

### What's my experience of the class?
#### Tooling
I learned a lot about the current state of tooling in computer
science. A lot about web development, best practices, React, Docker,
AWS, JSON, requests, making an API, styling, looking for components,
etc. Generally lots of cool things I can use in the future.

#### Experience
More importantly, I learned a lot about how to work with other people
on a project and how to bring up issues and how to manage people. I
was the project lead for the entire website development process, so
it's been interesting getting people to work together and to be
productive.

It's also been interesting learning about how to deal with deadlines,
learning about the spec and what is actually required, and then
spending time on things that will actually matter to the grade, or in
the future, to the customer. Always aim for the minimum viable product
first, and then make it fancy.

#### Teaching Methodology
At first, it felt like I was being forced to use a lot of inconvenient
and unnecessary tools for the phases of the projects, but once I
learned how to use them I definitely appreciating learning them
properly. I especially liked learning how to use them for the
future. I especially appreciated learning how to use React, Python,
Nodejs, and Flask.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
#### [Gitpitch](https://github.com/gitpitch/gitpitch)
There's a pretty cool presentation platform called gitpitch. Your
three big options for a presentation are: Powerpoint Online, Google
Slides, and (I've found out) Gitpitch.

Powerpoint is very powerful, has a lot of support from the past, and
most people are fairly comfortable using it extensively. Powerpoint
online also suffers from a terrible user interface. Google Slides is
basically Powerpoint but free and less powerful, but it has a very
good online user interface.

Gitpitch allows you to use the power of git/github to create a
presentation, uses a platform that is fairly familiar to all
developers with Markdown/HTML/CSS, and still allows you to do some
pretty nifty animations. It's definitely the most developer-friendly
option of the three and for my next CS presentation I'm definitely
going to try it out.
