---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 5"
---

This is my sixth post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

### What did you do this past week?

I set up some more stuff using create-react-app. Fixed the graphics
for the website. Currently working on making one cohesive theme for
the website and fixing up routing. Might work on improving the build
system. Might also try to separate the API provider and the renderer
for the website into two separate projects. The benefit of doing that
is using an npm backend for the actual website and then using the
flask backend we currently have for API host, and then having the
benefits of using a JS backend, which may or may not be worth it. I
think they will be though. It doesn't make sense to route something as
simple as react through Flask, especially when there's React Router.

### What's in your way?

I've been having some wrist pain from programming so much. I'm trying
to do hand exercises every half an hour to help them.

### What will you do next week?

Work on the Graph project and try to clean up the codebase for the
website some more. Investigate the separation of the app and the API.

### What's my experience of the class?

So far so good. It's been very interesting. I like how much I get to
explore front-end oriented projects. I spent the last semester
studying computer architecture, so python/javascript has been oddly
refreshing.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

[awesome-react](https://github.com/enaqx/awesome-react)
and
[awesome-react-components](https://github.com/brillout/awesome-react-components) are
great resources for finding great things to use for react. A very
difficult problem I've experienced before, but that is much more
common in web development, is wanting to make something, but you don't
even know what it's called. I wanted to make a Modal Overlay, and the
best way I could describe this is "I want to click on an item and then
have it balloon and cover the screen." As a last desparate attempt, I
googled "React Demos" to see just random stuff that people did to show
off, and I'd figure somebody had made this thing in my head before. As
is usually the case in computer science, somebody has done it before
you better than you could, so just use their thing and tweak it a bit.

Awesome react and the components list are fantastic ways of trying to
figure out what you want and giving you ideas for what to put in your
website. It's like a shopping catalogue of cool free stuff.
