---
layout: swe
---

This is my first entry for CS 373. I expect the class to be a lot of
fun and to learn a lot of good software development practices that
will improve the development of both my personal projects and the
commercial projects I work on in the future.

### What did you do this past week?

I learned a bit of Kotlin, and using the TornadoFX library, I made a
graphical terminal emulator that ran a shell I made. I intend to make
it as flexible as something like *rofi*, but as powerful as an actual
terminal emulator.

So far that's long off, but I'm learning a lot about the language as I
go.

I also watched a bunch of lectures about GHC design and compiler
design for Racket, Haskell, and Miranda. Miranda's compiler and the
functional compilers of the 80's were actually very interesting. I'll
have to write a post about that.

### What's in your way?

So far, Professor Downing has warned us about taking both CS 373 and
CS 371g during the summer, due to the coinciding quiz/project/exam
times. I am currently taking both, and I realize that taking both and
succeeding in both will be a great exercise in time management skills.

I'm pretty sure anyone can use more practice in that regard, and there
is no growth without struggle, but I am concerned about how I will
deal with the scheduling issues.

What was in my way, before I figured it out, was the irritating
gem/Ruby/Jekyll system. For some reason when you install a gem in
Ruby, it doesn't add the gem's repository to the PATH. 

Once I added it to my path, Jekyll was incredibly nice to use. You can
use 'jekyll serve' on a local copy of the repository and it watches
the directories for any changes. You can use 'jekyll build' to see
specific error messages during construction.

### What will you do next week?

I'm going to work on both of the projects for the classes, familiarize
myself with the libraries involved, and set up a preliminary workflow
for both. That'll start with setting up Docker images for both of the
classes.

### What's my experience of the class?

I found the first class very entertaining. I really enjoyed his
teaching style during the section of the class where he had a
mini-conversation with people. For most of the class, he taught
everyone, but during certain sections, he would converse with one
student directly.

I don't understand the methodology behind it, but from my perspective
it definitely made me more attentive because I had to anticipate being
called on, and it made me think about the questions more critically
because I'd have to see what I would say in the called student's
situation and how it was different, and it also made me anticipate the
professor's response. 

I also was thrilled about how much of the ecosystem and the Python
workflow I was introduced to in such a short time. Normally learning
about all of these libraries, even with documentation and
recommendations in front of me, would take several hours, but in
class, we zipped through a lot of material and I feel pretty confident
that I'll be able to use it when the projects come.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

mypy. When I sat in class and Professor Downing started explaining
what mypy was and that python actually had static typing... my mind
was blown. I finally understood how it was possible to use Python in
production.

My biggest gripe with Python was the lack of types. There's an
irritating amount of mental load involved with trying to keep track of
everything's type in a program, which sometimes leads to people
embedding the type in the name, like *value_str* or *counter_int*.

I recently watched a [lecture by Matthias
Felleisen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnczIyPXGfc) where he
discussed how Racket was a spectrum of languages, from a Racket that
is verified, to an experimental Racket that is a step up from
Assembly.

He discussed an iterative approach to using Racket where you start out
with Racket Racket, get a working prototype, and then once you have
some core part of the app written, you transition to Typed Racket and
have the types there for when you return or when you/a team member is
using the core.

I think that that workflow is common with Python in how it has a
similar system, with mypy being the equivalent of typed/racket.
