---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 4"
---

This is my fifth post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

### What did you do this past week?
I worked extremely hard on [the website](leaguedb.me) project. 
 - I set up a server to host the project
 - I set up a React development environment so we could integrate
   react and it's technologies with the rest of our server.
 - I set up pagination, sorting, and filtering on the front-end of our
   webapp.
 - I updated the Dockerfile we used for development to have it run on
   python 3.6 on the server.
 - I used the Fetch API for JavaScript to make API calls on the
   front-end.
 - Along with Ben Yang, one of my partners for this project, I set up
   the RESTful API on the flask server and designed the API calls.

### What's in your way?

After finishing Phase 2 of the project? Nothing.

### What will you do next week?

I'm going to try to use more of the ReactStrap library to make our
website look less awful. There's a lot of weird resizing issues and
mismatched components currently.

### What's my experience of the class?

Very positive so far. I feel like most of the material has been very
interesting. I'm excited to get into the more theoretical part of the class.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

There were several things I picked up during Phase 2 of the project
that were very interesting.

The most simple was a terse way to reverse a list in python.

```python
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = a[::-1]
assert(b == [3, 2, 1])
```

I also found [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app)
) and [reactstrap](https://reactstrap.github.io/).

#### [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app)
 
The past several times I've tried to use React I had to go through
this massive hassle of setting up webpack and making sure all of the
dependencies were put in the correct places. Webpack was basically a
necessary evil, and its even seen as an "improvement" to some of the
other utilities. I was in the process of setting up Webpack again and
trying to figure out how to integrate it with a non-Nodejs backend,
when I found create-react-app. 

It makes everything 10 times easier and it does everything better than
I could possibly hope to in an equivalent amount of time, and it's
also nice that it has an ejection switch that takes you out of the
ecosystem it sets up and gives you all of the source files it's using
to do all of the nice things for you.

The only thing I've found that is a problem with it is that I have 4
different directories for each page. I'd rather have 4 javascript
files created, one for each set of components, and also have them
built in the same project. It also seems to require a css file for
each component which I find strange. 

Mostly, they are small, subjective issues that are entirely possible
to work around.

#### [reactstrap](https://reactstrap.github.io/)
 
Components with bootstrap, but all the work is already done for
you. Sounds good to me.

Currently I'm having some small issues with theming relative to the
rest of the project, but I'm sure that it's only because I have not
touched the defaults for reactstrap.


