---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 4"
---

This is my fifth post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

### What did you do this past week?

I worked on the Integer project for the class, which made me learn a
lot from several interesting problems. I actually really enjoyed
working on the project. 

The premise of the project is to reinvent Java's BigInteger in C++,
but instead of using 4-byte integers and holding their full value, we
used individual digits in a number.

This had the obvious downside of not playing well with binary numbers
at all, so we lost a lot of fun tricks that we had up our sleeves. My
method for attacking the project actually worked out very well. The
requirement for the project was to be able to calculate 2^4423-1, a
Mersenne prime. There was bonus points for calculating the 30th
Mersenne prime as well.

Initially, me and my partner just tried to implement the calculations
as simply as possible. Every solution was naive, and every
optimization except for the ones that made the code more legible was
ignored.

This had the benefit of allowing us to do only the optimizations that
were required, allowing us to have no memory leaks during development
and the final project, and allowing us to get through development with
tests that made sure our code worked.

For addition, we did simple grade school carrying. For subtraction,
after looking into 9's complement subtraction and deciding it wasn't
worth doing due to the high conversion costs, we did the simple
borrowing game.

We built some functions that held specific assumptions about how the
inputs would be structured (A is required to be less than B, A is
required to be the number of digits as B, etc.), and then other
functions that checked those assumptions and called the correct
version.

The only optimizations that were necessary were caching the result of
the multiplication of one of the arguments and all of the digits, and
an optimization of the power function that divided the power by 2 if
it was even and cached the required multiplication by the current
number if it was odd to make it even.

The power optimization actually shaved enough time off of the Mersenne
prime calculation that we finished calculating the bonus prime in 14
seconds from the required 4 minutes.

### What's in your way?

I don't feel like anything is stopping me right now. I just wish I had
more time to read.

### What will you do next week?

Start on the next project, which is to reimplement the STL's
deque. Should be fun!

### What's my experience of the class?

I'm really enjoying the class. I like C++ and I'm glad I get to learn
about it. Most of the design decisions of the language are very
practical and very understandable, and the ones of the past are always
learned from. The more I use other languages, the more I appreciate
certain things in C++. The only ones I could really consider
competitive are Haskell and Rust.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

Honestly, CLion is great. IntelliJ is leagues ahead of other IDE
developers and I always find it difficult to use other things when
there's an IntelliJ product, even my beloved emacs.
