---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Week 2"
published: true
---

This is my third post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

### What did you do this past week?

I worked a whole lot on setting up AWS. AWS is fairly complicated,
especially to get a simple project up and running. I have pretty
detailed documentation available in the project directory for
everything I've done regarding the project
in
[the docs folder](https://github.com/kasrasadeghi/idb/tree/master/docs). There's
a fairly complicated process behind setting that up.

I also set up a Docker image running the website and everything on the
EC2 image I have running, and that was actually pretty nice and it
seems to work swell. I learned a lot about Docker during the project
and a lot about setting up systems to work well with it, and I've
really begun to appreciate how well everything seems to work on
it. It's very plug-and-play.

### What's in your way?

I read a lot about React and the ecosystem around it. There's a lot of
issues setting things up and all of the documentation for it seems to
be out-of-date or simply non-existent. In fact, most of the
'documentation' for the web development ecosystem seems to be some
blog or other recommendation. There's also a great number of
technologies that seem to do exactly the same thing with slightly
different philosophies.

Webpack vs Gulp vs Grunt vs basically every other tool on earth. A
good example of the Diversity Hell that comes from the web development
ecosystem is the
[Babel Documentation Page](https://babeljs.io/docs/setup/). There's so
many tools and integrations, there are **categories** for the tools
based on the type of integration. It's absurd.

There's also the currently issue with the React ecosystem I'm dealing
with. I'm currently using Webpack to compile all of the JSX files and
all of the sources into one files. That's working all well and good, I
serve the webpage, the client gets the *index.html* file that
references *bundle.js*. The issue is that the Chrome web browser
caches *bundle.js*, so if I have an update I need to push and test, I
can't test it because it'll maintain the cached version from
before. Because the web app is based on ReactJS, a majority of the
legwork for the program is done entirely in that file, so none of it
is really tested without manually clearing the caches. 

What I could do is somehow manage to automate Webpack to compile the
bundle into the html file and then not have to cache it, but it seems
like the caching is something I'll want for the server itself. Maybe
I'll append versions to the files and have them update that way?
There's a good deal of research left, so we'll have to see.

Web development is certainly a very different beast from most kinds of
development I do, and it has it's own set of unique challenges.

### What will you do next week?

Hopefully, I'll get React working and integrate that into the Docker
image and the server. The next phase of the project is having the
website be fully dynamic. Working with the team to accomplish that
goal is going to be demanding, but hopefully interesting work.

### What's my experience of the class?

For a small complaint, I wish that the lectures that were on Friday
regarding the setup of AWS and setup for React were given on Monday or
Tuesday instead of at the end of the week. I certainly wasted a lot of
time trying to figure out how to get Elastic Beanstalk to work and
without the guidance that was provided during the lecture, it was
difficult to decide that it was the entirely wrong tool to use for the
job. 

Other than that, class material has been very interesting. It was
fairly surprising to see the functional operations that you can do in
python like *reduce*, *map*, and that kind of thing. There was
actually a bit in the lecture where he showed a tail-recursive
solution to a problem and I got really excited, thinking that python
had tail recursion, when in fact it does not. That was a pretty severe
let-down.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

Google Hangouts has been essential to the project, giving us a channel
of communication while people are so far apart from each other. It's
easy to set up, everyone has a Gmail, it's a breeze to get going, and
you can plop in a link anywhere and have stuff working. Out of
Facebook Messenger Video Chat, Skype, and Discord, it's definitely the
one that is the easiest to use with some nice features like
Screen-share. If it could pick something up from Discord it would be
voice-activated talk or push-to-talk.
