---
layout: stl
title: "Generic Programming: Week 5"
---

This is my sixth post for CS 371g: Generic Programming.

### What did you do this past week?

I worked on the Deque project with Ian Caffey. The project was pretty
interesting to implement and had a lot of details that I had not
previously considered.

Contrary to what the name might imply, a deque is not simply an
interface for a type that acts like a double-ended queue. The Standard
Template Library's implementation of deque is actually an array of
arrays, of an outer array and an inner array. This is similar to a
multi-level page table.

I also learned some more Haskell through practice with HackerRank and
teaching it to a friend of mine.

### What's in your way?

Small obstacles regarding the project. Nothing major.

### What will you do next week?

Hopefully learn more Haskell. Work on the final project for both
classes. Get a good way through everything.

### What's my experience of the class?

It's very interesting so far. In the beginning of both CS 373 and CS
371g we have a quiz, and I really enjoy that I can usually
guess/predict what the C++ answer is. It's easy to work through the
code and to get the answer fairly deterministically. The code
evaluation is intuitive in most regards and when using data structures
from the standard library I can believe that they will do the most
efficient thing possible, in every case.

On the other hand, I look at the Python code in CS 373 and most of the
time I have to think "What mistakes have the language designers made
this time?" or "What unintuitive things do I have to check for
now?". The evaluation of the language is definitely not intuitive for
me.

### What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

Haskell's pretty nice. I program a lot, so even when I'm taking a
'break' from programming I usually program for fun. It's nice to
program something that is far and removed from the classwork I'm
doing, but I have both ends of the normal spectrum that I'm used to
flipping between. During architecture, I toyed with web development. I
set up a digitalocean droplet for the first time I made a website and
used a separate computer to host the website, wrote the app in Elm. 

Now with both front-end, back-end and low-level languages covered,
I've been drawn to the languages of safety, something both C++,
Python, and Javascript are not concerned about at all. So Rust and
Haskell have been interesting to mess around with.

Haskell's specifically been nice because of the very different way you
have to think about programs. There's very little procedure. The lack
of procedure and the presence of maps and transformation in its stead
is very clarifying when trying to think about parsers or compilers. 
