---
layout: swe
title: "Software Engineering: Final"
---

This is my final post for CS 373: Software Engineering.

#### Reflection

The material learned from this class is very useful. It's split into
two kinds: permanent and temporary. The temporary stuff is easy:
React, docker, flask, python even. All of this stuff could vanish into
thin air in half a decade or even less. That's just the nature of the
beast we're all trying to tame. But even then, you get some inkling
about design patterns and workflow from working through all of that
and learning about these kinds of things yourself.

What you get in this class that you don't really get in any others is
a sense of what it is like to work with other people on a common
goal. You have to be your own, find your own path, and make your own
'best practices' and your own rules about how your team is going to
work together. Then you have to throw them all away when crunch time
hits you. It's a great experience.

#### Tips and recommendation

This class has a bunch of useful stuff. You learn a bunch of cool
tools and neat tricks and you get really the only introduction to
python I've had that I've actually enjoyed. I feel like there is
little mystery to the semantics of the language any more, and I have a
lot of intuition for how things are supposed to go.

As for tips, if you're actually reading this, you're doing better than
me, so good on you. Maybe the professor can show you the way to our
final posts for the next class (and if he did that for our session I
wish I had paid attention to it).

I'd recommend going into this class knowing other people you're going
to work with. Going into this class with other people you know you can
depend on as people you've worked with before (!) and people you know
you work well with will make this class a piece of cake. Even if you
only know *one* person, that's half of the team and that is a whole
lot of entropy that is taken out of the equation. 

Also, be proactive. Don't wait until the last minute for the stuff in
the website. There will always be more problems. There will always be
more testing than you initially thought. Get it working, and do the
hard thing now. There's no such thing as a 'temporary workaround'.

Good luck!

P.S. check out [my code repo](www.github.com/kasrasadeghi/idb) for the website for some good tips.
