---
layout: stl
title: "Generic Programming: Week 3"
---

This is my fourth post for CS 371g: Generic Programming with the
Standard Template Library.

### What did you do this past week?
 
#### "Effective CMake" by Daniel Pfeifer
 - [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsXLMQ6WgIk&index=32&list=PL-aYBnapqshFaFPtHcQ8A8aGjUxN_YdhA)

Watched this talk. It's a pretty good talk about the power behind
CMake and how to use it and different recommended practices. If you're
still writing Makefiles by hand and somehow that hasn't annoyed you,
I'd recommend giving this talk a watch.

#### "Rich Code for Tiny Computers: A Simple Commodore 64 Game in C++17" by Jason Turner
 - [link](https://youtu.be/zBkNBP00wJE)
 
It's as awesome as it sounds. He shows the magic of compiler
optimization and how much abstraction gets turned into nothing when
using the C++ compiler. 

#### Rust

I've really enjoyed using Rust in the past week to develop a small
game with my own collision detection algorithm. It's been fun. See my
tip of the week for more.

### What's in your way?

The first test for each class. The problem with tests for each class
is that they're very dependent on the professor. The first test will
always be a blind shot, at least to some degree.

### What will you do next week?

I'll start on the next project and continue optimizing the collision
algorithm in Rust. 

### What's my experience of the class?

So far the class is great. Friday was a bit insane with the amount of
things we went over. I still have a lot of reviewing to do. I need to
look through the textbook as well.

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

I tried Rust a year ago and it was pretty nice, but most of the time I
felt like I was battling the compiler to express what I really
meant. The major pain point was how often I had to express the
lifetimes for things and how often I knew what I was writing was
correct and how I had to massively reorganize my code into some
arcane pattern to convince the compiler that I wasn't destroying the
world.

Thankfully all of that seems to not be true any more. I haven't had a
single problem using it. It's very expressive and it doesn't seem to
hinder me at all. Expressing read/write access and having c++'s const
be default is quite nice. So is type inference. It's been extremely
pleasant so far and I can't wait to use it more.

Another pain point that has been vanishing with the stability of the
language is the presence of stable libraries. Some don't have a lot of
documentation, but at least the language is legible enough that
everyone writes in a similar way so, if you are so inclined, you can
read the source code for any library, even the standard libraries.

While, on the other hand, if you try to read the source code for the
C++ standard libraries, I wish you a good deal of luck. Code style is
definitely not any normal code style I've seen. I'm not sure if that's
because of library specific policies or just because the source I got
is weird, but it seems to be very difficult to read.

The last pain point that is present for rust is the lack of features
that should be in the language, but that they're still in the
works. Things like equality for floating point numbers really should
be in there, but aren't. At least, with the trait system, it's not
difficult to get around it, and I also have faith that they're putting
a good amount of thought into making the language correct and
developer friendly in the future. They're planning for the long-term,
which is good to see.
