---
layout: stl
title: "Generic Programming: Week 6"
---

This is my seventh post for CS 371g: Generic Programming.

### What did you do this past week?
#### Graph Project
I turned in our implementation of Boost's Graph library, specifically
the adjacency list for an undirected graph. There were some
interesting problems, but I feel like a majority of the problems
encountered were a subset of the problems I had faced before.

It was good to have a project where most of the difficulty was
actually figured out what the library and implementation did, and it
was very interesting writing a lot of tests first in order to build
our understanding of the reference implementation and the things we
would have to take into consideration when designing the implementation.

### What's in your way?
#### The Final
The final for the class is next monday. Once I have that done, I'm
going to work on some personal projects and go back to practicing
Haskell.

### What will you do next week?
#### Studying
Three things: study for the final, take the final, enjoy being done
with the final. 


### What's my experience of the class?
#### Smart Pointers
This week we learned about smart pointers, which are an interesting
way of using C++'s semantic scopes in order to call destructors in an
intuitive and deterministic way.

I really enjoyed learning about the class, and I've really enjoyed the
realization that most of the generic implementations we've studied
have design patterns in them that are very useful in the rest of the
language as well.

A specific example is shared_ptr. We learned that if you have to have
a pointer to a class that is generic of a type that you can not know,
you can create a superclass of that class and then reference that, so
that it contains things that you can determine.

### What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
#### Tree
I haven't mentioned this much, but I really like the *tree*
command. It shows you the directories and files under your current
working directory in a pretty nice graphic. Overall it's just very
pretty. It's often a much better visualization of the workspace than
just *ls*.
